examples/configuration-investigation-example.md, before:

# Configuration Investigation Example

This example demonstrates how to use the Investigations MCP tools to investigate configuration drift issues.

## Scenario
Application behavior changed unexpectedly. Suspected configuration drift or deployment issue.

## Investigation Workflow

### 1. Start Configuration Investigation
```bash
investigation_start \
  --title "Unexpected Application Behavior" \
  --description "Application started returning different responses without deployment" \
  --severity medium \
  --category configuration \
  --reported-by "qa-team" \
  --affected-systems "app-service,config-service"
```

### 2. Collect Configuration Evidence
```bash
investigation_collect_evidence \
  --investigation-id "inv_003" \
  --sources '[
    {
      "type": "config",
      "path": "/etc/app/config.yaml"
    },
    {
      "type": "config",
      "path": "/etc/app/environment"
    },
    {
      "type": "filesystem",
      "path": "/etc/app",
      "parameters": {
        "include_hidden": true,
        "check_permissions": true
      }
    }
  ]'
```

### 3. Perform Configuration Analysis
```bash
investigation_analyze_evidence \
  --investigation-id "inv_003" \
  --analysis-type correlation \
  --hypothesis "Configuration file changed without proper deployment"
```

### 4. Generate Configuration Report
```bash
investigation_generate_report \
  --investigation-id "inv_003" \
  --format json \
  --include-evidence true
```

## Expected Results
- Configuration drift identified
- Timeline of configuration changes
- Root cause analysis completed
- Configuration management recommendations provided

Commit message:

🚀 Release v2.2.1 - Production Ready
✅ MAJOR UPDATES:
- Replaced SQLite with JSON storage system
- Added comprehensive error handling and input validation
- Implemented production configuration management
- Enhanced security with XSS and path traversal protection
- Added comprehensive CLI help system

🔧 TECHNICAL CHANGES:
- New JsonStorageService with FIFO limit (50 investigations)
- InputValidator for security and data integrity
- ErrorHandler with retry logic and graceful degradation
- EnvironmentConfigManager for production configuration
- Updated all documentation and examples

🛡️ SECURITY ENHANCEMENTS:
- Input sanitization and validation
- Dangerous pattern detection
- File type and size validation
- Path traversal protection
- Comprehensive security disclaimers

📊 PRODUCTION FEATURES:
- Health check endpoints
- Storage information CLI
- Configuration management
- Audit logging
- Performance monitoring
- Comprehensive documentation

🎯 READY FOR PRODUCTION DEPLOYMENT!

examples/configuration-investigation-example.md, after:

# Configuration Investigation Example

This example demonstrates how to use the Investigations MCP tools to investigate configuration drift issues with the new JSON storage system.

## Scenario
Application behavior changed unexpectedly. Suspected configuration drift or deployment issue.

## Storage System
This investigation uses the new JSON-based file storage system with automatic FIFO management (max 50 investigations). All data is stored in `./.investigations-mcp/` directory.

## Investigation Workflow

### 1. Start Configuration Investigation
```bash
investigation_start \
  --title "Unexpected Application Behavior" \
  --description "Application started returning different responses without deployment" \
  --severity medium \
  --category configuration \
  --reported-by "qa-team" \
  --affected-systems "app-service,config-service"
```

### 2. Collect Configuration Evidence
```bash
investigation_collect_evidence \
  --investigation-id "inv_003" \
  --sources '[
    {
      "type": "config",
      "path": "/etc/app/config.yaml"
    },
    {
      "type": "config",
      "path": "/etc/app/environment"
    },
    {
      "type": "filesystem",
      "path": "/etc/app",
      "parameters": {
        "include_hidden": true,
        "check_permissions": true
      }
    }
  ]'
```

### 3. Perform Configuration Analysis
```bash
investigation_analyze_evidence \
  --investigation-id "inv_003" \
  --analysis-type correlation \
  --hypothesis "Configuration file changed without proper deployment"
```

### 4. Generate Configuration Report
```bash
investigation_generate_report \
  --investigation-id "inv_003" \
  --format json \
  --include-evidence true
```

## Expected Results
- Configuration drift identified
- Timeline of configuration changes
- Root cause analysis completed
- Configuration management recommendations provided

## Storage Benefits
- **Automatic Cleanup**: Old investigations automatically removed when limit exceeded
- **Human Readable**: JSON files can be inspected manually in `./.investigations-mcp/`
- **No Database Setup**: No SQLite or database configuration required
- **Portable**: Easy to backup, move, or version control
- **Atomic Operations**: File-based operations are naturally atomic
